Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.A data structure is a specialized format for organising and storing data. General data structure types include the array,
  the file, the record, the table, the tree, and so on. Any data structure is designed to organize data to suit a specific
  purpose so that it can be accessed and worked with in appropriate ways.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.Traversing, Searching, Inserting, Deleting, Sorting and Merging.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.Data Structures are mostly used in Database Management System, Compiler Design, Operating System, Statistical analysis
  package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence and Simulation.
what is an Array?
A.Array is used to store block memory. Also we can say array is used to store a collection of data.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.The main difference with Array and ArrayList is, in Array the array size is static in nature. That means its length
  is fixed. We can’t change its size once it is created. On the other hand ArrayList is dynamic in nature. ArrayList is
  also called as dynamic array or re-sizable array. Because, it automatically resizes itself if we try to add elements
  beyond its capacity. Array uses length function and arraylist uses size function.
what is LinkedList?
A.LinkedList is a linear data structure where each element is a separate object.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.In array, each element is independent, no connection with previous element or with its location. In Linked list,
  location or address of elements is stored in the link part of previous element/node. In array, no pointers are used like
  linked list so no need of extra space in memory for pointer.
what is queue?
A.A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the
  queue. Queue follows First In First Out (FIFO) principle.
what is stack?
A.It is a data structure that allows data to be inserted and removed. Stack follows Last In First Out (LIFO) -queue.
  Therefore last data to be inserted will be the first data to be removed.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO: First In First Out.
  LIFO: Last In First Out.
what is the order of complexity?
A. It is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the algorithm finishes between two factors
  of it. Generally, the smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying algorithm, the faster it will run and
  the better it will scale as the input gets larger.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.Binary search
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.Hypothetical data set.
what is tree in data structure?
A.Tree represents the nodes connected by edges.
what is graph in data structure?
A.Graph is set of items connected by edges. Each item is called a vertex or node. A graph is a set of vertices and a
  binary relation between vertices, adjacency.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A. HashTable is synchronized  whereas hashMap is not synchronised. HashTable does not allows null keys or values whereas
  HashMap allows null keys.
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.RDBMS uses Array. Network data model uses Graphs and Hierarchical data model uses Trees.
How HashMap works in java?
A.HashMap works on the principal of hashing. HashMap stores both key and value object, in bucket, as an object of Entry
  class which implements the nested interface Map.Entry. HashMap provides put(key, value) for storing and get(key) method
  for retrieving Values from HashMap. equals() method is used to compare objects for equality
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A. ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is a runtime Exception thrown only at runtime. It occurs when Java program tries to
  access an invalid index, means an index which is not positive or greater than the length of an array.
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A. Arrays inherit methods from Object class, and clone is one of them
      Object.clone()
      Arrays.copyOf()
      Arrays.copyOfRange()
      System.arraycopy(
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.An array is a set of similar data objects stored in sequential memory locations under a common heading or a variable
 name. While a linked list is a data structure which contains a sequence of the elements where each element is linked
 to its next element.
What is DFS and BFS?
A.Depth First Search: DFS is a method for exploring a tree or graph. In a DFS, we go as deep as possible down one path
  before backing up and trying a different one. Here DFS explore one path, hit a dead end, and go back and try a
  different one. Breadth First Search: BFS is a method for exploring a tree or graph. In a BFS, we first explore all the
  nodes one step away, then all the nodes two steps away and so on. BFS traverse the tree starting with the root.
What is Recursion?
A.Recursion in java is a process in which a method calls itself continuously. A method in java that calls itself is
  called recursive method.
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.Linear data structures are Array, Stack, Queue and LinkedList. Non Linear data structures are trees and graphs.
What is Big-(O)-notation?
A. Big-(O) notation is used to describe the performance or complexity of an algorithm. Big-(O) specifically describes
  the worst-case scenario, and can be used to describe the execution time required or the space used by an algorithm.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.Bucket sort O(n+k)
              O(n+k)
              O(n^2)
  Bubble sort O(n)
              O(n^2)
              O(n^2)

  Insertion sort O(n)
                 O(n^2)
                 O(n^2)

  Selection sort O(n^2)
                 O(n^2)
                 O(n^2)

  Heapsort O(n log(n))
           O(n log(n))
           O(n log(n))

  Mergesort O(n log(n))
            O(n log(n))
            O(n log(n))

  Quicksort O(n log(n))
            O(n log(n))
            O(n^2)
Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.

A.Pros and cons of different data structures-
Arrays -
Pros:
1. Access to an array element is fast since we can compute its location quickly.

Cons:
1. If we want to insert or delete an element, we have to shift subsequent elements which slows our computation down.
2. We need a large enough block of memory to hold our array.
3. Easily corrupted (One can easily inset data in middle)


Linked Lists -
Pros:
1. Inserting and deleting data does not require us to move/shift subsequent data elements.

Cons:
1. If we want to access a specific element, we need to traverse the list from the head of the list to find it which can take longer than an array access.
2. Linked lists require more memory.
3. Easily corrupted (One can easily inset data in middle)


Stack -
Pros:
1. Helps manage the data in particular way (LIFO) which is not possible with Linked list and array.
2. When function is called the local varriables are stored in stack and destroyed once returned. Stack is used when varriable is not used outside the function.
So, it gives control over how memory is allocated and deallocated
3. Stack frees you from the burden of remembering to cleanup(read delete) the object
4. Not easily corrupted (No one can easily inset data in middle)

Cons:
1. Stack memory is limited.
2. Creating too many objects on the stack will increase the chances of stack overflow
3. Random access not possible


Queue -
Pros:
1. Helps manage the data in particular way (FIFO). which is not possible with Linked list and array.
2. Not easily corrupted (No one can easily inset data in middle)

Cons:
1. Random access not possible


Tree -
Pros:
1. Searching is faster (with some ordering e.g., BST). we can search for a given key in moderate time (quicker than Linked List and slower than arrays).
2. Insert/delete keys in moderate time (quicker than Arrays and slower than Unordered Linked Lists).

Cons:
1. High overhead
2. Large waste of unused links
3. Predetermined limit on number of a node’s children

Heap -
Pros:
1. When the data in the variable is needed beyond the lifetime of the current function.
2. It can offer the maximum memory an OS can provide

Cons:
1. You must make sure to free the memory when you are done

Graph -
Pros:
1. Finding the path in efficient way

Cons:
1. High overhead
2. Large waste of unused links




